hello i'm dr. neal schultz and welcome
to dermtv
some skin care products cause different
sensations like tingling stinging or
even burning when you put them on your
skin so one of those unpleasant
sensations okay more importantly when do
they mean that that skin care product
just isn't for your skin first let's
distinguish between tingling stinging
and burning I use tingling to describe
what you feel when right after applying
your product it caused a sensation of
heat or tiny pins like prickly but it's
slight and temporary yes it catches your
attention but it doesn't feel scary
because it doesn't build up or become
stronger stays the same intensity and
sort of stops by itself in about a
minute this tingling is nothing to worry
about and probably means that that
product is okay for your skin but it's
very different than stinging and burning
while stinging and burning aren't the
same both are signs that the product is
probably going to irritate or possibly
harm your skin and you should rinse it
off immediately while i would say that
with singing pins or prickling is
greater than the heat and with a burning
sensation it's the opposite both
stinging and burning start almost
immediately increase very quickly even
over a period of seconds and they
accelerate so fast that they frighten
you this is when your good common sense
tells you something is wrong and if you
don't wash off your products they can
even become painful obviously that sting
care product is not good for your skin
now note how I use the word probably
several times in this episode that's
because there's no way for me to be a
hundred percent sure that you're
actually feeling a tangling versus are
burning or stinging it's always better
to be safe than sorry but the guidelines
above should certainly help so when it
comes to unpleasant sensations from skin
care products while temporary tingling
is usually ok there's no truth in the
saying no pain no gain
please join me again at dermtv.com if
you have a question please send me by
visiting dermtv.com slash question i'm
dr. neal schultz and thank you for
watching today